1. Introduction 

Unravel is a prototype program slicer for ANSI C developed at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). Unravel is usually easy to install but, there are some rough edges that can bite. This file identifies the supporting software that you need, gives some hints for finding it on your system or the Internet, and gives instructions for running make.

2. Unravel Requirements

Unravel was originally written for the UNIX (or POSIX) environment. Unravel assumes the following programs are available:

* csh (C Shell)
* date
* echo
* lex
* sed
* yacc
* a C compiler; at the moment, gcc is assumed.

The following C libraries should be available:

* Xaw; install on Ubuntu with: 

```sudo apt-get install libxaw7-dev```

* Xmu

* Xt

* Xext

* X11

The echo command should allow the -n option (to indicate no newline). The original unravel development was under SunOs 4.1 but, we have compiled under Solaris, ULTRIX, SGI/IRIX and DEC OSF/1, and Linux Ubuntu. The unravel interface was developed under X Window System X11R5 using the Xt toolkit and the MIT Athena widgets. Unravel should compile and run under X11R6; it also compiles and runs under X11R4. Unravel needs a C preprocessor (that is ANSI C compliant if unravel is to be used on ANSI C source code) from a C compiler to invoke when unravel is looking at source code. Unravel compiles under either a K&R C compiler or an ANSI C compiler. The gcc compiler is ANSI compliant, produced by the Free Software Foundation (the GNU project).


3. Running make on Unravel
Before making unravel, the following should be done:
The original source code for version 2.2 is available here: ftp from hissa.ncsl.nist.gov
That version was adapted to get it to run on Linux Ubuntu. To compile the latter:

* download the source code
* run make

uncompress and un-tar the source code somewhere on your system Locate the X Window System tree with includes and libs
Decide on a C compiler for installing unravel
Decide on a home for installing unravel


3.1. Obtaining Unravel
The unravel source code is located on hissa.ncsl.nist.gov at the National Institute of Standards and Technology. Use ftp with a user name of anonymous. Please use your user name followed by an at sign as password (e.g., jimmy@). This directory also contains both volumes of NISTIR 5691 Unravel: A CASE Tool to Assist Evaluation of High Integrity Software. Volume 1 describes the software design of unravel and volume 2 is a user manual for unravel.
The location (directory) where the unravel source code is unpacked and compiled should be selected carefully since once the programs are compiled, they cannot be moved without compiling again.

3.2. Unpacking
The files have been collected into one file by tar and then compressed by compress.

3.3. Finding the X Window System
If you don’t know where your X Window System tree is you can either ask your system adminis- trator or try the csh script find_software (in the unravel source directory).
The X Window System tree usually has subdirectories: bin, man, include and lib. Sometimes the X includes are part of /usr/include and /usr/lib, but usually the MIT distribution of X is installed in /usr/local.
After the X Window System tree is located the environment variable WINHOME must be set before make can be run. This environment variable only needs to be set during the make, not needed after unravel has been compiled. For example, on Sun systems, the default location of the tree is sometimes /usr/openwin.
setenv WINHOME /usr/openwin

3.4 C Compiler
The C compiler needs to be set in two places, the makefile and the file config.h.
In the makefile, look for the compiler definition line: CC = something
something should be changed to either gcc (if you have the GNU C compiler) or cc (to use the com- piler provided with your system).
Unravel needs a C preprocessor to help parse source program files. The makefile invokes a csh script, find􏰀􏰀cc, to locate a C compiler that can be invoked (via the -E option) to run just the C prepro- cessor. The script searches the directories in the path variable for either acc (Sun ANSI C compiler), gcc or cc. If the script fails to find a C compiler or if you want to use a compiler different from the one found, then the file config.h must be changed. Setting the C compiler in config.h is a little tricky. The file config.h is generated by rules in the makefile so if you try to edit the file at the wrong time things might not work. The config.h file must be created by running make before config.h can be edited. The best method is to check the config.h after make finishes. Then to change the C compiler, edit config.h and run make again.

3.5. Install Directory
Once the make finishes, the unravel files cannot be moved since the location (directory) where the unravel source code is located is compiled into the unravel programs so that they can find certain files (e.g., icons and help files). However, the main control program can be installed anywhere in the file directory tree. The install directory is selected by setting the INSTALL_DIR macro in the makefile. To set the INSTALL_DIR macro, edit the makefile and find the line: INSTALL_DIR = . Replace the dot with the selected install directory name. For example, to install in /usr/local, change the line to:
INSTALL_DIR = /usr/local
This puts the main control program (called unravel) in the directory /usr/local/bin and adds an unravel man page to /usr/local/man/man1. Note that the bin and man/man1 are added automatically to the
INSTALL_DIR directory name.

3.6. Running make
After WINHOME is set in the environment and CC is set in the makefile, type: make
This should compile each unravel source program. Depending on the compiler used and how it is installed, there may be lots of warning messages (especially if using an ANSI C compiler).
If everything has compiled correctly, unravel can be tried out on the simple programs in the directory examples. The file flavors.c has several obvious slices and makes a good trial run.
To run the install script, type: make install
This copies the unravel program file and man page to the install subdirectories.

4. Help
For more information and very very limited help contact:
Dr. James R. Lyle at NIST email: jlyle@nist.gov phone: (301) 975-3270 fax: (301) 926-3696
